Lecture 02
✓Concept of images
✓Colour
✓Colour images

Concept of images

Concept of images
We will consider how electronic pictures(monochrome) are made up.
Consider some important characteristics of electronic images.
See how image are represented in a computer .
Appreciate compromises and limitations.
Finally you will be able to edit individual picture elements and change the brightness, 
contrast and of an image.

Picture presentation by a (old CRT) television set
Consider monochrome first.
The image that we see on our monitors is composed 
of a series of  horizontal lines.
So it is sampled in the vertical direction.


The television picture (Cathode ray tube) 
Raster Scan System
the electron beam is swept across the screen, one row at a time from top to bottom. When 
electron beam moves across each row the beam intensity is turned ON and OFF to create a 
pattern of illuminated spots. 
Picture definition is stored in a memory called frame buffer which holds the set of intensity values.


The television picture 
At the end of each line the beam must be turned off and redirect to the left hand side of the 
CRT , this is called Horizontal Retrace. At the end of each frame (field), the electron beam 
return to top of the screen to begin the next frame (field) called Vertical Retrace as shown in 
figure below:
Inkjet printers create their images basically by raster scanning.


A frame is a complete image captured during a known time interval, and a field is the 
set of odd-numbered or even-numbered scanning lines composing a partial image. 
When video is sent in interlaced-scan format, each frame is sent as the field of odd-
numbered lines followed by the field of even-numbered lines.

Interlaced video
Some HD TV channels are broadcasted today using interlaced video 
format to reduce the data rate.
The following slide gives an example of the de-interlaced TV content from 
one of the UK TV broadcasters.





De-interlace

How many lines (samples) / Spatial resolution. 
Spatial resolution is finest detail in the vertical and horizontal direction 
we can resolve (see).
If the television picture is to have good spatial resolution we must have a 
minimum number of lines (vertical samples).
For (CRT) television there are 625 lines in the European television 
picture. In the American NTSC standard there are nominally 525 lines 
per frame..

Aspect ratios 
The maximum angle that our eyes can see (without moving them) is greater in the 
horizontal direction (than in the vertical direction).
TV screens are larger horizontally than vertically.
The ratio of the width to the height is called the aspect ratio.
Two common television aspect ratios are:
◦ 4:3
◦ 16:9


Greyscale img

The digital picture - Monochrome
We allow 256 values (typically) for each pixel value (8 bit).
Each sample from our television line must be quantised. 
That is we must find the nearest value in the range 0-255 to represent it.
im = plt.imread(r’img.jpg’)
plt.imshow(im,cmap='gray')


The digital picture - Monochrome


Total number of samples, physical significance 
480 rows (lines)
640 columns
63
240
640x480 matrix
Each pixel point  is represented by a 
corresponding value in a matrix. 
By changing the value in the matrix 
the corresponding pixel will be changed.

Matrices and pictures 
But the matrix doesn’t have to be so large.
We can make up an image by putting values into a 3 x 3 matrix.
The values at each point in the matrix represent the brightness of a pixel.
The position (in terms of rows and columns) in the matrix will correspond 
directly to the position on the screen.

Indexing
img[23:100,40:100] = 255
img[400,350] = 255

Brightness and contrast
The value of each point in this two dimensional matrix represents the 
brightness of a pixel.
brightness is the absolute value of a pixel.
Contrast is the difference between the brightest pixel and the darkest 
pixel in an image. 

Changing Brightness and contrast
The above implies that we must add or subtract to change the 
brightness of a pixel, and multiply or divide the change the 
contrast of an image. 

Reading histogram


Changing Brightness 
Our image is full brightness in most parts so lets 
decrease the brightness and view it.
 subtract 127
We can increase it again
  Add 127
If we increase/decrease values below 0 or above 255 
we lose information in the image, try it.


Changing Contrast
Multiply with 0.6                    Multiply with 1.2
x 1 3 5 5-1=4
x*0.6 0.6 1.8 3 3-0.6=2.4
x*1.2 1.2 3.6 6 6-1.2=4.8

Changing Contrast
Multiply with 0.6                         Multiply with 1.2

How a TV Works in Slow Motion - The Slow Mo Guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3BJU2drrtCM

How a TV Works in Slow Motion - The Slow Mo Guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3BJU2drrtCM
